smss.exe (Session Manager)

Image Path:	%SystemRoot%\System32\smss.exe

Parent Process:	System

Child Processes:

Number of Instances:	One master instance and another child instance per session. Children exit after creating their session.

User Account:	Local System

Start Time:	Within seconds of boot time for the master instance

Description:	The Session Manager process is responsible for creating new sessions. The first instance creates a child instance for each new session. Once the child instance initializes the new session by starting the Windows Subsystem (csrss.exe) and wininit.exe for Session 0 or winlogon.exe for Session 1 and higher, the child instance exits.

First user mode process

Parent process is System

Base Priority of 11

Username: NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM

Performs delayed file delete/rename changes

Loads known dlls

Runs from %systemroot%\System32\smss.exe

Creates session 0 (OS services)

Creates session 1 (User session)

Creates csrss and winlogon then exits, which is why they have no parent process and they both have session ids of 1

Runs within session 0

Only one smss.exe process should be running at one time. The second smss.exe process exits, so you will only see the one running in session 0.

There can be more sessions if more users are logged on to the system. 0 and 1 are for a single user logged onto the system.

SMSS.EXE is the Windows Session Manager, the application used to manage the desktop and all the processes belonging to an individual user.

SMSS is the first user-mode process launched by System, so it should appear as a child of System on the tree, and be running as SYSTEM, in Session 0, from the %SystemRoot%\System32 folder.

Malware might try to disguise itself by using a similar name -- smmss.exe -- so once you’ve selected it in the Process Explorer tree, click the Process column header to sort the list into alphabetical order and check for lookalikes. (Which may be entirely innocent, of course, but are worth investigating further.)

Click the PID column header to sort by Process ID, too. The real System, Idle, SMSS processes are clustered together with low PIDs, while programs running in your user account are much higher.

Scroll down the process list, checking the Session column. On a regular stand-alone PC you should see only sessions 0 and 1. Other sessions could be entirely legitimate -- you’ve switched to a second account, a trusted user on your network has made a remote desktop connection -- but if you don't understand the reason, might be worth further investigation.